it's dark you can't see a thing you're
tired and any street light or headlight
coming your way feels like it's about
ten times too bright yep
driving at night really does test your
might but it's no laughing matter being
behind the wheel at night is a lot
riskier than during the day since it's
not like you can restrict yourself to
only daytime trips it's best to follow
these tips so that you can be safe out
there on the roads
number 14 keep a safe distance not
keeping enough distance is never a good
idea but at night and in bad weather
it's especially important to leave
enough space between your car and the
one ahead of you first of all you're
only human so when your vision is
limited so is your reaction time if the
car in front of you suddenly has to stop
you'll break faster during the day when
you can see better at night however less
light is entering your eye which in turn
worsens your vision so you don't have
time to react also you have to remember
that your headlights can blind to the
driver ahead of you if you're following
too close most experts recommend
following the four second rule at night
when the car ahead of you passes say a
road sign your car should pass it four
seconds later if you're going 55 miles
per hour
number 13 don't look at the light from
oncoming cars
let's talk more about that blinding
effect bright lights at night seriously
disturbed concentration sometimes
without the driver even realizing it
with only the dashboard lighting the car
your eyes become very relaxed at the
same time you unconsciously start to pay
attention to bright road signs so
oncoming headlights and even like coming
from the cars behind you
the best thing you can do is to stay
alert and don't let yourself get
distracted by moving your eyes away if
the driver behind you hasn't adjusted
their headlights appropriately or if
they're following too close and their
lights are blinding you just stay calm
and if possible adjust your mirrors so
that their light doesn't hit your eye
speaking of which number 12 clean and
adjust your mirrors the mirrors reflect
the light from the cars behind you in a
wider more scattered way which can cause
unnecessary glare but that doesn't mean
you should just keep the glass dirty so
that it's not so reflective you need to
see so always keep your mirrors clean
their position is also key it's best to
point them down a bit so that you have
to tilt your head slightly forward to
see the cars behind you also if your
rear-view mirror doesn't have an auto
dimming feature then you need to push
the little Knight mode tab at the bottom
in order to dim the light from cars
behind you just don't forget to pull it
forward again when the sun's out
number 11 adjust and polish your
headlights this is the first thing to
check before driving at night especially
for long trips sometimes even in
brand-new cars the headlights aren't
properly adjusted or they're too dim the
good news is that you can fix this all
you need is your car's owner's manual
and probably some tools if you have no
time for that or you're nervous about
messing with your headlights then you
can always take it to the dealership or
a garage and have experts check it out
for you are your headlights angled
perfectly but still shining too dimly
that usually happens because of dirt and
dust so the best solution would be to
buy a headlight polisher and don't
forget to clean them regularly during
your trip whenever you stop to rest on
that note number 10 stop periodically
for light snacks or a nap of course if
you're anything like me you want to get
to your destination as fast as possible
but do take time for stops during your
trip you need rest in order to stay
vigilant besides driving is really
strenuous on your eyes so they get tired
really fast your body needs a break to
try some stretching to relax the muscles
that get stiff from being in the same
position for so long number nine
avoid two-lane highways
two lane highways usually have sharper
curves and more Hills than freeways add
to this lower overall light and almost
constant glare from oncoming cars and
you've got a recipe for extremely
stressful nighttime driving so plan your
trip beforehand and choose a safer route
if you can number eight use the fog
lights even if it's not foggy fog lights
can be useful not only in poor
visibility conditions because of the
weather like fog smoke snow or rain but
also at night in combination with a low
or high beams just make sure you don't
blind other drivers number seven look
out for animals even if you're going
through calm country roads surrounded by
scenic forests and fields you still need
to be on high alert collisions with deer
often happen at dusk or at night and are
more common than you think
but your high beams can help you spot an
animal's glowing eyes when you see them
the safest way to avoid an accident is
by slowing down and stopping not by
swerving number six drive only in
glasses with anti reflective lenses if
you wear glasses you gotta have a
special pair for driving at night
because ordinary glasses reflect
oncoming lights and create an obscuring
glare that reduces your visibility
another option is to wear contacts it's
also a good idea to get your vision
checked every year since glare becomes
more problematic for people as they get
older
number five don't travel alone you'll
definitely need some company for a long
nighttime trip take a passenger with you
to chat with on the way this will help
you stay awake and keep driving fatigue
at bay just don't get into any heated
debates or in prompt to karaoke
competitions this might distract you
from the road
besides having an extra pair of eyes and
hands is a good idea when driving over
long distances for example your travel
companion can answer your phone or send
a text for you change the radio station
or even take your place behind the wheel
if you get too tired number four
minimize the brightness on your
dashboard some cars are equipped with a
special dashboard brightness control and
that's where a good reason if you drive
with maximum brightness it takes your
eyes much longer to adjust to the poorly
lit road in front of you when you look
up from the dash and of course don't
leave any other electronic devices on
such as a cell phone or a tablet light
from any screen inevitably throws a
glare which also creates an unwanted
distraction
number three use GPS the most difficult
thing while driving at night is trying
to figure out where or when to turn your
field of vision is limited and you can
only see within the range of your
headlights that's when a GPS is a real
lifesaver it gives you better Road
awareness in low visibility conditions
at night and especially during bad
weather night driving a GPS will show
you an upcoming turn or exit long before
you can see it giving you a preview of
what's ahead it'll also tell you which
lane to be in if you're driving on a
multi-lane freeway number two
be careful when passing oversized
vehicles if you see colorful or flashing
lights up ahead
it means that there's either a road
service vehicle or a semi on the road
big vehicles carrying heavy loads are
really tricky if you decide to pass them
because they can turn out to be much
longer than you expected
so do it only in well-lit areas number
one don't drive at high speeds not to be
Captain Obvious here but a lot of
accidents at night happen just because
drivers don't follow this rule driving
at night is already enough of a
challenge just because there isn't much
traffic on the roads doesn't mean
speeding up is a good idea stay within
the posted speed limits or better yet go
even slower at night and definitely
during bad weather and be ready for your
journey to take a bit longer than you
planned but hey it'll be safer and
that's what's most important what other
tips were driving at night do you know
leave them down in the comments
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to always stay on the bright
side